`azurerm_ai_services` - mark as deprecated for 5.0 (#31809)
terraform-providers/terraform-provider-azurerm: website/docs/5.0-upgrade-guide.html.markdown

The legacy `ARM_PROVIDER_ENHANCED_VALIDATION` environment variable, which previously controlled both location and resource provider validation, has been removed in version 5.0. Please migrate to either the `enhanced_validation` provider block or the specific environment variables: `ARM_PROVIDER_ENHANCED_VALIDATION_LOCATIONS` and `ARM_PROVIDER_ENHANCED_VALIDATION_RESOURCE_PROVIDERS`.

> ## Migration guide for removed `azurerm_ai_services` resource

Reviewer: The migration guide should be part of the ai_services resource documentation for better visibility,  with a link to that here.

Author: Hi @mstroob, this migration guide is part of the 5.0 upgrade guide which is not published, so I think the link is not valid for now? We can add it after 5.0 is available and the 5.0 upgrade guide is published, or you think we shall create a separate document for the migration guide?

Reviewer: hi @ZiChuanBuXiu, since the users will see the deprecation notice and migrating to `azurerm_cognitive_account` is not dependent on 5.0 release, I think it makes more sense to include the migration guide along with the deprecation notice in the resource documentation. And the 5.0 upgrade guide should link to that.

Author: This is updated as suggested, thanks!

The `azurerm_ai_services` resource has been removed and replaced by `azurerm_cognitive_account`. The table below lists the attributes that have changed; all other attributes are carried over unchanged.

| `azurerm_ai_services` | `azurerm_cognitive_account` | Notes |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------|-------|
| (not present) | `kind` | **Required**. Set to `"AIServices"` to match the behaviour of `azurerm_ai_services`. |
| `local_authentication_enabled` | `local_auth_enabled` | **Renamed**. Both default to `true`. |
| `public_network_access` | `public_network_access_enabled` | **Changed type**. String (`"Enabled"` / `"Disabled"`) → Boolean (`true` / `false`). Defaults to `true`. |

> | (not present) | `project_management_enabled` |**Required**. Set to `true` to match the behaviour of `azurerm_ai_services`. |

Author: It's not a "REQUIRED" field but it's required to be set to `true` during migration, otherwise it will force a new resource to be created based on this [instruction](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/cognitive_account#project_management_enabled-6).

I may change the wording to `Mandatory` to make it less confusing with the "Required" field terminology?

> | `customer_managed_key.managed_hsm_key_id`  | (not present) | `customer_managed_key.managed_hsm_key_id` is not present in `azurerm_cognitive_account`. Try update to use `customer_managed_key.key_vault_key_id` before migration. |

Author: Fixed

This deprecated resource has been superseded/retired and has been removed from the Azure Provider.
```

### `azurerm_ai_services`

> * This deprecated resource has been retired and has been removed from the Azure Provider.

Reviewer 2: Please make the wording consistent for superseded removal

```suggestion
* This deprecated resource has been superseded by `azurerm_cognitive_account` and has been removed from the Azure Provider.
```

Author: Fixed
